DOC-12351 Add or Remove Services and Rebalance (#3846)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/manage/pages/manage-nodes/manage-data-service-and-rebalance.adoc

> = Manage a Data Service and Rebalance

Reviewer: This is not a good name since "Manage a Data Service" encompasses a huge area -- let's be very specific so that people aren't surprised.

= Adding or Removing the Data Service on existing nodes

> :description: pass:q[Add or remove Data Service on existing nodes in a cluster and rebalance the cluster.]

Reviewer: :description: pass:q[Unlike the other services, you cannot dynamically add or remove the Data Service on an existing node of a cluster.  Adding or removing the Data Service can only be done by adding or removing the node from the cluster, and then, completing the add or the removal of the node by running a rebalance.]

Author: I've divided the information into 2 parts, and added in lines 2 and 8.

:page-toclevels: 3

[abstract]
{description}

> Add or remove a Data Service on existing nodes in a cluster from the Couchbase UI, REST API, or CLI.

Reviewer: You can add any service, including the Data Service (kv), when you add or join a new node to a cluster.  Also, when you remove a node, you are removing all the services on that node.  To complete adding or removing a node, rebalance is run.  The xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Add a Node and Rebalance] and xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance] describe the process of adding and removing nodes from the cluster using the Couchbase UI, REST API, or CLI.

== Add a Data Service on an Existing Node

> To add a Data Service on an existing node of a cluster from the UI, REST API, or CLI:

Reviewer: To add a Data Service on an existing node of a cluster:

. Remove the node that you want to add the Data Service to using xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance].
. Then xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.html[add the node] back to the cluster along with enabling the Data Service.

Alternatively, you can add a new node with the necessary services configuration, including the Data Service, using xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Add a New Node and Rebalance].
Then remove the extraneous node that you no longer need using xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance].

== Remove a Data Service from an Existing Node

> To remove a Data Service from an existing node of a cluster using the UI, REST API, or CLI:

Reviewer: To remove the Data Service from an existing node of a cluster:

. Remove the node with the Data Service that you want to remove using xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance].
. Then xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.html[add the node] back to the cluster along with disabling the Data Service.

NOTE: During the node removal operation, if there are other services on the node that you are removing for the Data Service reconfiguration, and you do not want those services to be impacted when the node is removed from the cluster, you may need to add those services to another node temporarily.

> Then add a new node temporarily with those services enabled.

Reviewer: Instead of Then, it should be an Or.

Or, add a new node temporarily with the impacted services enabled.

= Adding or Removing the Data Service on Existing Nodes
:description: pass:q[You can add or remove the Data Service on an existing node of a cluster by adding or removing the node from the cluster, and then completing the addition or removal of the node by running a rebalance operation.]
:page-toclevels: 3

[abstract]
{description}

Unlike other services, you cannot dynamically add or remove the Data Service on an existing node of a cluster.

You can add any service, including the Data Service (kv), when you add or join a new node to a cluster.
Also, when you remove a node, you are removing all the services on that node.
To complete the process of adding or removing a node, the rebalance operation must be run.

> The xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Add a Node and Rebalance] and xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance] describe the process of adding and removing nodes from the cluster using the Couchbase UI, REST API, or CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about adding or removing a node and rebalacing using the UI, REST API, or CLI, see: 

* xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Add a Node and Rebalance]
* xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance] 
```

> == Add a Data Service on an Existing Node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Add the Data Service on an Existing Node
```

> To add a Data Service on an existing node of a cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add the Data Service on an existing node of a cluster:
```

. Remove the node that you want to add the Data Service to using xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance].

> . Then xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.html[add the node] back to the cluster along with enabling the Data Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Then xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.html[add the node] back to the cluster after enabling the Data Service.
```

Alternatively, you can add a new node with the necessary services configuration, including the Data Service, using xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Add a New Node and Rebalance].
Then remove the extraneous node that you no longer need using xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance].

== Remove a Data Service from an Existing Node

> To remove a Data Service from an existing node of a cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Remove the Data Service from an Existing Node

To remove the Data Service from an existing node of a cluster:
```

> . Remove the node with the Data Service that you want to remove using xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Remove the node using xref:manage:manage-nodes/remove-node-and-rebalance.adoc[Remove a Node and Rebalance].
```

Author: I can't apply this. It will change the meaning.

> . Then xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.html[add the node] back to the cluster along with disabling the Data Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Then xref:manage:manage-nodes/add-node-and-rebalance.html[add the node] back to the cluster after disabling the Data Service.
```

NOTE: During the node removal operation, if there are other services on the node that you're removing for the Data Service reconfiguration, and you do not want those services to be impacted when the node is removed from the cluster, you may need to add those services to another node temporarily.

> Or add a new node temporarily with those services enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also add a new node temporarily with those services enabled.
```

== See Also

> For information about modifying non-Data Services on existing nodes, see xref:manage:manage-nodes/modify-services-and-rebalance.adoc[Modify Services and Rebalance].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about modifying non-Data Services on existing nodes, see xref:manage:manage-nodes/modify-services-and-rebalance.adoc[Modify Services and Rebalance].
```
